Outline:
1. Goals
2. Classes
3. Projects
	1. Mrs Peterson.
	1. archlinux
	2. gentoo
	3. lfs
	4. Gentoo on a raspberry pi


The goals of the Linux course are to become a LPI certified professional. There are multiple certifications one can ascertain from the LPI. The most basic one is the LPI-Essentials exam. To quote from LPI's website, the LPI-Essentials certification is to "Show employers that you have the foundational skills required for your next job or promotion". The LPI-Essentials exam covers topics like basic navigation around Linux, networking from the command line, managing compilers, automating tasks with shell scripts, understanding open source and open source licenses, archiving with common Linux tools, how to search for files using regular expressions and other attributes, the Filesystem Higherarchy Standard, POSIX and much much more. The second certification you can achieve from the LPI is the LPIC-1. This covers more advanced Linux topics like configuring the Linux boot process in depth, Systemd, init, runlevels, partitioning, c library management with ld\* tools, Dpkg/Apt and Rpm/Yum package management, process management in depth, editing files with vi, filesystem tools, file permissions, and other various tools. While there are many LPI certifications, the two exams that have outlined are my goals for this year leading into next year. I have so far become an LPI-Essentials certified professional, and am working on my LPIC-1 certification currently.

My classes to achieve these goals are set inside of the Skilstak Coding Arts school located in Cornelius North Carolina. This class is mainly to review and discuss the reading we are doing at home. The textbooks for this course are the following: CompTia Linux+ LPIC-1 cert guide, and the Linux Essentials(course) available on lpimarketplace.com under the Linux Essentials category.

Some of the most significant projects I have done over the course of my Linux classes will be listed here. The most significant one was setting up significant portions of a Minecraft camp for Amplified Learning LLC. Some of the parts I have contributed to are the following: The curriculum, The decision for the computers, and the operating system of the computers. Another one of my significant projects was installing Arch Linux. Arch Linux is a bleeding edge Linux Distribution with emphasis on configuration, choice of software, and simplicity. It took me approximately three hours to get Arch Linux installed on a burner laptop given to me by Skilstak Coding Arts. This same laptop would soon be the home to three discreet Linux distributions. These distributions would be Debian Linux, openSUSE, and the aforementioned Arch Linux. Soon this same computer would be the home of an even more complex and in depth Linux Distribution: Gentoo Linux. Gentoo Linux was installed while on a vacation to Folly Beach, South Carolina. It took me three separate tries to install, each varying from one to three hours for a total installation time of about seven hours. This distribution takes the configuration and flexibility of Arch Linux to the source code of most Linux packages. This will allow you to control software specific integrations with other packages as well as features provided by the program under the end user's control through the $USE environment variable. Currently this document is being written on a Gentoo Linux computer as this Linux distribution is my personal favourite. The final linux distribution that has been installed as of this current moment is Linux from Scratch. It is different from all Linux Distributions as it contains no package manager, and expects all of it's users to build software from source code.
