.TH "econ 15" 1 "economics" "6 questions" "15 qs"
.SH "3. Johnny Rockabilly has just finished recording his latest CD."

a. Find total revenue for quantity equal to 10,000, 20,000, and so on. What is the marginal revenue for each 10,000 increase in the quantity sold?


24*10*1000=240000
22*20*1000=440000
20*30*1000=600000
18*40*1000=720000
16*50*1000=800000
14*60*1000=840000

b. What quantity of CDs would maximize profit? What would the price be? What would the profit be?

840000 would maximize profit, and the price would be 14 buckeroonies

c. If you were Johnny's agent, what recording fee would you advise Johnny to demand from the record company? why?

They should charge 5 dollars because that fits inside the total revenue per cd, and its the variable cost. They would make 14\cdot60\cdot1000\cdot\\frac{20}{100}=168000

.SH "4. A company is considering building a bridge across a river."

a. If the company were to build, what would be its profit-maximizing price? Would that be the efficient level of output? Why or why not?

4 dollars*400 thousand would be 1,600,000 dollars. Anything else does not make as money

b. If the company is interested in maximizing profit, should it buld the bridge? What would be its profit or loss?

It should not build the bridge b/c 2,000,000 is greater than 1,600,000, so it would have a loss of 400,000

c. If the govt were to build the bridge, what price should it charge?

Assuming the govt want to have as small burden on the tax payer as possible, they should charge four dollars
Assuming the govt will put all of the of the burden on the tax payer, they would charge zero dollars, or one dollar
Assuming the govt wants to screw over everyone, they would charge eight dollars

d. Should the government build the bridge? Explain.

I think the government should build the bridge if it is neccisary, if it isn't neccisary, it will be an unneccsisary burden to taxpayers. Assuming that people will use the bridge, I would say its a good idea. If people don't need it, don't build it

.SH "5. Larry, Curly, and Moe run the only saloon in town."

I don't know :(

.SH "8. You live in a town with 300 adults and 200 children, and you are thinking about putting on a play"

a. To maximize profit, what price would you charge for an adult ticket? For a child's ticket? How much profit do you make?

7 For adult, 4 for child=2900
Subtract 2000 in fixed costs

b. THe city council passes a law prohibiting you from charging different prices to different customers. What price do you set for a ticket now? How much profit do you make?

I would charge 7 dollars because then we get 2100
Subtract 2000 in fixed costs

c. Who is worse off because of the law prohibiting price discrimination? Who is better off? (If you can, quantify the changes in welfare)

Well, no kids would come, so they would be worse off, Im worse off by 800 bucks, and the adults stay the same

d. If the fixed cost of the play were $2500 rather than 2000, how would your answers to parts a,b,c change?

If it were 2500, I would still put on the play as in part a, but in part b, I wouldn't put it on b/c I would lose 400 bucks. And for c, I would be even more worser off, and the adults would also be worse off because they would now have no more play
