#Sam Parker

I just turned 18, and I am supposed to be dead because a car hit me. I have lived here my whole life. When I turned 16,
my parents took me to a part-time job. It had to be close to home, not require me to work past my curfew; and it could
not interfere with school and stuff.
I found the Main Street Cafe at Court Square on the corner of Pickens Street. It has nice pizza. I am a good deliverer
for them. If I dont get there in time, the pizza is on the house, my house. I always take the shortcut of Branch Street.
I modded my Gary Fisher bike by adding a rack on the back for pizzas. On the weekends I race my friends around
Abbeville. I love making the bike sleeker and faster. One Modification I mad was replacing the Reflectors with reflector
tape, the kind you see on police bikes. It is very bright. I also have a hologen headlight on my bike. Most people
downtown are nice, and they often say hello, but there are also people like Jordan Rawls, He likes to walk his dogs
around the parks. He often tries to get his dogs to attack me when I ride "too close" to him. Because of the new curfew,
I dont get many tips. It starts raining I was going over to the Nutoriously good tipper at the end of Branch street,
deciding that I should be a little bit past curfew. I almost ran into Tybee Cumberland, then went past a city of
abbeville truck parked near the flagpole. I then heard a terrible screaching sound, then I got slammed off my bike by
a silver colored car zooming past me. Then cj asks "Is this going to make me late?". I had a ton of serious scrapes and
bruises. But no matter what anybody says, this isn't my fault Since CJ was not on the street yet. 

#Terry Benjamin

I am Terry Benjamin, and I live in NYC. I am basically paparazzi. I found out by word of mouth that Lil Calhoun was
going to his hometown, so I followed. I could not get any shots that night because of the annoying amount of Lil Calhoun
fans around him. So I left, then followed his car around. I finally found his titanium colored BMW Trying to give me the
slip. I start shining my lights to get his attention. He drives around the square trying to avoid me like one of the
craziest of NYC cab drivers. CJ swerves to the right, then hits a flagpole. I saw a beat up kid on the sidewalk, as well
as a bike just as destroyed. My camera was flashing even before I got out of my car. It was damaged. Sherrif Newton
arrives, and takes my camera's SD card. He says the bike was in the wrong

#Tybee Cumberland

I am Tybee Cumberland, I manage The downtown Drug Store and I have lived in abbeville my whole live. I remeber the
Memorial Day parade well, it was raining. It only stopped raining an hour before I started leaving. The road was very
slick. We had a free concert from CJ that day, I dont watch television that much, but I had watched the TV show CJ won.
He used to be a frequent Downtown Drug Store Customer when he was younger. I saw madison smith taking out trash after
dark. Madison smith is often allowed to use a pickup truck for loading trash bags even though he has been warned about
parking it in the middle of the street. Then I saw jordan Rawls walking his dogs. Soon after that Sam parker sped past
me, coming dangerously close to me from my blind spot. Sam is always in a hurry, often riding the wrong way around Court
Square. He always crashes into his home barely making the curfew. He is really reckless. Soon after I saw headlights
through my water-blurred glasses, then screeching tires, finally a loud crash. The source was a silver convertible that
ran into a flagpole. The front end crushed and the windshield cracked. After, I saw Sam Parker sprawled on the pavement
alongside his bike. I saw CJ come out of the convertable. Sherrif Newton soon comes. He must have been close when the
accident occurred because he was there very quickly. An ambulance was called. I thought the accident was nobodies fault. 

#CJ

My name is Cj and I am 18 years old. A year ago the accident happened. I wanted something more than staying in
Abbeville. Luckily I found my place singing in NYC. I returned to Abbeville to start my world tour with ToneDef Records.
I wanted to be away from paparazzi, but I saw the worst of them here in abbeville, Terry Benjamin. He has ruined the
lives of countless young stars with his pictures. I start trying to give terry the slip after the concert. I had to go
back to my hotel to do a interview with a DJ. I started the interview while in the car. I put the phone down, but
suddenly a moron with a bike darts out in front of me and gets rammed. I didn't see him at all, he just darted in front
of me without looking or caring. I tried to swerve out of the way, but the bike just kept on going. I rammed into him
with the front of my car, he bounced off of the side, but his bike shattered my windshield. After that my car slammed
into a flagpole, and the airbags deployed. Then the sherrif arrives. The sherrif says the accident was nobodies fault.
Terry comes onto the scene, and gets his SD card taken away. I think it was sam parkers fault. 

#Jordan Rawls

My name is Jordan Rawls. I live off Court Square in downtown Abbeville. I moved because I want to live in a slow place.
I a lot of dogs. The delivery boys are reckless, but sam parker is the worst of them. I call him "Speedee". I would like
to get on the city council so that I can create the "Speedee law", which confiscates kid's bikes if found riding on the
wrong side of the street. Then I saw speedee zip onto one of the side streets, almost hitting mr cumberland. After I saw
a car chase involving a Silver car, and a black Cadillac. The silver car drove around madison smith's pickup truck. Soon
I heard screeching tires and a crash. I rushed over to the flagpole. My dogs stopped barking like something was wrong,
and there was something wrong. Speedee was sprawled on the ground next to his bike. I did not help, I just stayed back
and watched. Sherrif Newton arrived a few minutes later. The most terrible thing about the accident was the man coming
out of the black cadillac. He was taking a ton of pictures of the scene until the sherrif took his camera on account of
his disrespect. The next say speedee is riding around on the sidewalks, unhurt. 

#Madison Smith

I am madison Smith, I am 61 and I have lived here my whole live. I usually pick up after parades in the city. I got
a late cleaning start because of the rain. Sam Parker and alike frequently disobey the rules of the town such as the
rule against riding on sidewalks. They even warrented the council to create a curfew of 11:00 for these kids. Sam is
nearly invisble when going around the streets. I often leave the yellowish light on the top of my truck lit, just in
case somebody does not already know where I park. One time, the sherrif fined me for driving DUI, I didn't think I was
DUI, but I payed the fine anyways. The day of the concert, I had been picking up confetti and other trash after the
parade when I saw a silver car driving down the street alongside a black BMW. I saw the silver car swerve into the
flagpole, and I heard a crash. I saw Sam parker hurt on the ground next to his destroyed bike. Sam was injured pretty
bad. I could see a ton of scrapes on him. I am sure sam blacked out for a while. There was a moron bouncing along with
a camera at the scene. Sam had cut the middle of the Square and was crossing the street alongside the wrong way of
traffic. I didn't see any lights or reflectors on Sam's bike. I dont think the driver could have seen Sam at all
Sam got up and said he was fine. So I went to check on the BMW driver. He was also banged up. I told the sherrif about
the ordeal, and then he concluded that the accident was CJ's fault. I also noticed that there was a dent in the front
fender of the truck
