b                     c
c                     c
d                     
b                     
e                     c
b                     c
a                     c
d                     c
d                     c
d                     c
a                     
c                     c
d                     c
d                     c
b or a i am confused  c                  
e?                     
d?                    c
c                    c
b                     
c                    c
e                    c
c                    c
d                     
c                    c
b                    c
e                    c
a                    c
e                     
e                    c
a                     
a                     
c                    c
probably e jk a      c              
e                     
d                    c
a                     
c                    c
e                    c
c                    c
d                     
a                    c
A. STUCK                     
b                     
b                    c
a                    c
d                    c
b                    c
a                     
a                    c
c                    c
a                    c
e                     
e                    c
a                    c
a                     
c                    c
a                    c
c                    c
c                     
b                    c


0.5
1.c normal profit 
1.d. Relativly high elasticity is when small changes in price correspond to massive changes in demand. This is a clear case of relativly high elasticity because elasticity is measured by percent change in quantity demanded over percent change in price. When a good is unit elastic, this comes out to 1. When there is relativly high elasticity, this good comes out over 1, and under 1 is relativly low elasticity. 40/20=2 so this good is relativly elastic

a.i. q=10,p=3
a.ii. idk
a.iii. idk
b.i. the area of consumer surplus would be the triangle between 7 dollars, 3 dollars and the where the marginal cost intersects with demand. The area of a triangle is 1/2b*h which would be 4*20/2=4*10=40 dollars
b.ii. idk
b.c. idk

3.c. I would reccomend a per unit subsidy because of the positive externality created by vaccines. When there is a positive externality, rational actors fail to realise the benefits of their actions, and do not buy a specific product enough. This requires people to pay the price of the good minus the benefit their externality creates in dollars. This will, once in effect, make them want to buy more vaccienes. 







