.TH "econ 14" 1 "idka" "iao" "oif"
.SH "1 Many small boats are made of fiberglass, which is derived from crude oil. Suppose that the price of oil rises."

a. Using diagrams, show what happens to the cost curves of an individual boat-making firm and to the market supply curve

By cost curve, I assume you mean graph out marginal cost, and atc

graphed in /Users/liam/text3394.png

b. What happens to the profits of boat makers in the short run? What happens to the number of boat makers in the long run?

Assuming that the market is competitive, prices will go up, but boat makers will not be able to enjoy higher prices because of the higher costs of production. This means that less people will buy boats, and quantity will decrease. Because ATC is TC/Q, atc will be higher, this means that the firm makes less money. For less efficient firms, the lowest point of the ATC will be over the price, and thus the firm should eliminate its sunken costs, and will probably leave. 

.SH "2 You go out to the best restaurant in town and order a lobster dinner for $40. After eating half the lobster, you realize that you are quite full. Your date wants you to finish your dinner because you can't take it home and because "you've already paid for it." What should you do? Relate your answer to the material in this chapter."

The crab is a sunken cost that cannot be recovered, and thus we should not cry over spilt milk.

.SH "3 Bob's lawn-mowing service is a profit-maximizing, competitive firm. Bob mows lawns for 27$ each. His total cost each day is $280, of which $30 is a fixed cost. He mows 10 lawns a day. What can you say about Bob's short-run decision regarding shutdown and his long-run decision regarding exit?"

He only makes 270$ per day, so each day he would lose 10$. He should stop mowing lawns in the short term, as he cannot raise prices due to this being a competitive market. And in the long term, he should probably exit the market due to being unprofitable. 

.SH "4 Consider total cost and total revenue given in the following table:"

.TS
allbox,tab(:) ;
c c c c .
Quantity:Total cost:Total revenue:Profit(tr-tc)
0:$8:0:-8
1:9:8:-1
2:10:16:6
3:11:24:13
4:13:32:29
5:19:40:21
6:27:48:21
7:37:56:19
.TE

a. Calculate profit for each quantity. How much should the firm produce to maximize profit?

4

b. Calculate marginal revenue and marginal cost for each quantity. Graph them. (Hint: Put the points between whole numbers. For example, the marginal cost between 2 and 3 should be graphed at 2 1/2.) At what quantity do these curves cross? How does this relate to your answer to part (a)?

This is busy work, I seriously do not have any time for this 

Marginal cost = Change in total cost/Change in quantity

Assuming marginal revenue is marginal cost :s/cost/revenue/g

Marginal revenue = Change in total revenue/Change in quantity


c.Can you tell whether this firm is in a competitive industry? If so, can you tell whether the industry is in a long-run equilibrium?

This is a competitive industry because its table looks very much like the one in Table 1


.SH "5 Ball Bearings, Inc. faces costs of production as follows:"

.TS
allbox,tab(:) ;
c c c .
Quantity : Total Fixed Costs : Total Variable Costs
0:$100:$0
1:100:50
2:100:70
3:100:90
4:100:140
5:100:200
6:100:360
.TE

a. Calculate the company's average fixed costs, average variable costs, average total costs, and marginal costs at each level of production. 
b. The price of a case of ball bearings is $50. Seeing that he can't make a profit, the chief executive officer decides to shut down operations. What is the firm's profit/loss? Was this a wise decision? Explain.
c. Vaguely remembering his introductory economics course, the chief financial officer tells the CEO it is better to produce 1 case of ball bearings, because marginal revenue equals marginal cost at that quantity. What is the firm's profit/loss at that level of production? Whas that the best decision? Explain.

.SH "7. A firm in a competitive market receives $500 in total revenue and has marginal revenue of $10. What is the average revenue, and how many units were sold"

Marginal revenue is revenue gained from one more unit of production. Assuming marginal revenue stays the same for each unit of production(as in table 1), and ar=mr, we get average revenue of 10 dollars, and 500/10=50, so 50 units were sold
