.TH "Physical science" 1 "chptr 10" "two sections" "ps"

.SH "1. Compare and contrast reflection and refraction"

"Refraction occurs when a wave changes direction as it moves from one medium to another"

Reflection is exactly what it says on the tin

Refraction and Reflection are sort of similar because they both mess with the normal course of a wave. The differences come into play when we look at the exact effects they have. Refraction only slows down or speeds up a wave, but reflection completely turns it around

.SH "Which type of wave has points called nodes that do not move?"

Standing waves

.SH "Which part of a compressional wave has the lowest density?"

rarefaction

.SH "Find two words in the vocabulary list that describe the bending of a wave"

What do you mean by bendng, none of the terms reference it

.SH "What occurs when waves overlap?"

Interference

.SH "What is the relatonship amoung amplitude, crest and trough?"

Amplitude is the distance from the crest or trough of the wave to the center as defined by its nodes

"The transverse wave in Figure 8 has alternating hgh points called crests, and low points called troughs."

The amplitude is the distance from the crest to the trough divided by two. Or |C-T|=a


.SH "What does frequency measure?"

The frequency of a wave is the number of wavelengths that pass a fixed point each second. 

.SH "What does a mechanical wave always travel through?"

In a medium aka matter

.SH "Which of the following do waves carry?"

"Waves carry energy without transporting matter."

b. Energy

.SH "What is the formula for calculating wave speed?"

v=fλ

A

.SH "When a compressional wave travels through a medium, which way does matter in the medium move?"

back and forth along the same direction that the wave travels.

so d

.SH "12. What is the highest point of a transverse wave called?"

A. Crest

.SH "13. If the fequency of the waves produced by a vibrating object increases, how does the wavelength of the waves produced change"

d

It gets smaller

.SH "If the amplitude of a wave changes, which of the following changes?"

A. "Amplitude is related to the energy carried by a wave"

.SH "Which term describes the bending of a wave around an object?"

C

.SH "what is equal to the angle of reflection"

D. The angle of incidence

.SH "Based on the data in the table above, which of the following would be the speed of sound in air at 30C?"

D. It goes up by six each time
