#Monday, November 2017, docs

##EXERCISE 171
----
1. I shall hear.
1. You all were hearing
1. you will come
1. we were hearing
1. you will hear.
1. he will come
1. you were hearing
1. yall will come
1. I will hear
1. they will convene
1. they will hear
1. I will hear
1. yall will hear
1. they were hearing
1. he will hear
1. I was hearing
1. they will come
1. you were coming
1. he was convening 
1. he was coming

##EXERCISE 172:
1. The leaders often fortify the towns and bridges. 
1. Part of the enemy comes through the woods; part of them however, is
   coming through the province.
1. do you hear the voices of the slaves?
1. Romans, on account of common safety, were building long roads
   through the provinces. 
1. We were hearing the clamour of the calvary.
1. The leading man will come into the senate. The senate will hear the
   speech.
1. The leaders and the leading men will convene in the town of Gaul 
1. At first light the senate will convene in a safe place. It will act concerning the serious matter.
1. Meanwhile Caesar was coming through the province with all the
   troops
1. The Cavalry was warning Caesar concerning his danger. And so, he
   is fortifying the camp. 


##EXERCISE 176

1. On account of fear of the enemy, we are in Caesar's camp
1. There were shouts of the enemy from all sides
1. There was grave danger in the province 
1. The Gauls always desire power
5. All men desire glory
1. Were there darts in the camp? 
1. There were mountains and woods on all sides. 
1. We will be with Christ in the sky
9. Were the mountains high and difficult?
1. Caesar was a desirous of power
1. Is Christ the son of Mary and god?
12.Is Mary full of grace?
1. You however, are all brothers"
1. Was Christ in the earth on account of us? 
15.We are not in the woods
1. Caesar was at the battle line first.
1. He will be strong
18.I was in Gaul with the calvary
1. Are you a horseman? are you a soldier?
20. All holy men are similar to Christ. 

##EXERCISE 177

1. The Winter quarters of the Gauls were not far away from the town
1. Caesar was far away from the camp
1. The winter quarters are not far away from the Caesar
1. The legion will be far away.
1. Caesar was far away
1. Rome is a great distance from us
7. God is not a great distance from us
1. War and anger of death are a great distance from the heavens. 


