.TH "Ch 9 test" 1 "Review" "Ch 9" "Test"
.SH "A(n) ______ uses the Sun to generate electricity."

photovoltaic cell

.SH "______ makes use of thermal energy inside the earth"

geothermal plants

.SH "Energy produced by the rise and fall of ocean levels is a(n) _______"

hydroelectric plant. There is one in nova scotia


.SH "______ includes the following: oil, natural gas, and coal."

I can't really tell what they are asking, so I will answer another fossil fuel. That fossil fuel being petrolium.

.SH "Fossil fuels are a(n) ______ because they are being used up faster than they are being made"

non-renewable resource?

.SH "A special caution should be taken in disposing of ________"

High-Level nuclear waste

.SH "Why are fossil fuels considered to be nonrenewable resources?"

"They are resources that cannot be replaced by natural processes as quickly as they are used."

Fossil fuels are nonrenewable because we will eventually run out of them

Consideriing this, the answer is C

.SH "To generate electricity, nuclear power plants produce which of the following"

PLUTONIUM™®®®® BROUGHT TO YOU BY PLUTONIIUM COOOOOORP! He though he was drinking regular tea, but he was drinking PLUTONIUM™®™®™®™®™®™®®®™®

Jokes aside, nuclear power plants generate electricity using nuclear reactions to heat up water into steam which turns a turbine, so they produce steam.

This means the answer is A

.SH "What is a major disadvantage of using nuclear fusion reactors?"

With temperatures of over a million degrees CELSIUS, it is highly unlikly that we would ever be able to harness this energy without using more energy than the fusion generates

Answer is C

.SH "How are spent nuclear fuel rods usually disposed of?"

They are usually placed underwater in a tightly sealed pool. The water absorbs the nuclear waste

Answer is B

.SH "How much energy in the United States comes from burning petrolium, natural gas, and coal?"

How is somebody supposed to remeber this

A. 85%

.SH "Solar cells would be more practical to use if they were which of the following"

If the price of anything is reduced, it becomes more practical to use.

.SH "Which energy source uses water that is heated naturally by Earth's internal heat?"

D. Geothermal energy

.SH "What do hydrocarbons react wth when fossil fuels are burned?"

"When fossil fuels are burned, carbon and hydrogen atoms combine with oxygen molecules n the air to form carbon dioxide and water molecules"

This means that they combine with oxygen, so the answer is C

.SH "What of the following is NOT a source of nuclear waste?"

THis is a pretty bad question, the answers could be
A. Products of fission reactors. A product of fission reactor is steam, and another is electricity. Neither of which is radioactive
B. Materials with short half-lives. Thats just not true, so we can get rid of B. Calefornium is an example
C. Some medical and industrial products. What, like a scalpel? Some certain pills that are not radioactive? WHAT DO YOU MEAN!
D. Products of coal-burning power plants. Like electrcity? water? carbon dioxide?????

Im confused

Basically all of those are true. 

.SH "Whch of the following is the source of almost all of Earth's energy resources?"

According to the graph thingy in the first section, petrolium is the most used resource for generating power.

Petrolium is made from plankton and algea that died a long time ago

The answer is probably fossil fuels, so D

.SH "Copy and complete the table below describing possible effects of changes in the normal operation of a nuclear reactor"

Cause: Cooling water is released hot.                                   Effect: The cooled water is sent into the reactor still hot
Cause: The control rods are removed.                                    Effect: You can no longer control the chain reaction of u-235
Cause: The control rods are lifted out accidentally Or the pumps break. Effect: The reactor core overheats and meltdown occurs.

.SH "Copy and complete this concept map"

Bubbles filled in on left side: non-renewable, fossil fuels to thermal.

Bubbles filled in on right side: Which are able to be used over and over again, geothermal to steam, hydroelectricity water current to to electricity

.SH "Infer why alternative energy resources aren't more widely used.

They are more expensive and lesse effective.

Also green cars are not green, they are just powered by coal and petrolium

.SH "Infer whether fossil fuels should be conserved if renewable energy sources are being developed."

A corrective tax or tradable permits to mine fossil fuels should be put because of the negative externalities set in place by consumption of oil and pollution.

.SH "Infer Suppose new reserves of fossil fuels were found and a way to burn these was developed that did not release pollutants and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Should fossil fuels still be conserved? Explain"

This answer is the antithisis to my last one. I have changed my mind.
No, If we conserve fossil fuels, we just kick the problem of running out down the road. We will run out eventually, why not now?

.SH "Explan why coal is considered a nonrenewable energy source, but biomass, such as wood, is considered a renewable energy source."

Because coal is used more than it is produced, meaning that we will eventually run out. We can plant more trees, and get wood that way in a timely manor

.SH "Convert Units Crude oil is sold on the world market in units called barrels. A barell of crude oil contans 42 gallons. If 1 gallon is 3.8 liters, how many liters are there in a barell of crude oil?"

42*3.8=159.6


.SH "Last question too large to write"

(6.78*10^7+6.13*10^7/1.02*10^9)*100~=12.6568627451
