Watergate was the biggest case of scandal in American history, and the balance of justice could be tipped against Chuck Colson, author of *Born Again* and a senior Nixon operative, depending on the timing of a singular court decision. There was mass outcry at the infamous Watergate scandal that had been rounding the news for months. This story alleged that Richard Nixon had broken into the Democrats' headquarters in Watergate. Now, the courts would battle it out for the final verdict against Chuck Colson. The action in question is the decision to hold Colson's trial later in the year. While many think that the trial should have been delayed, others think that it should not have been. The trial in which Chuck Colson was accused of obstruction of justice for attempting to defame Daniel Ellsberg should have been delayed for three reasons: One, there was bias in the courtroom; Two, he was harmless; and three, this case was REALLY important because of its impact on the Nixon presidency.

Firstly, there was bias. In the book, there were shown to be thousands of articles against Colson, making it nearly impossible to find an unbiased jury. Many of the articles made damming alegations against Colson for being a ruthless chore boy for Nixon, some even going as far as to describe Colson as a "Hit Man" for Nixon. When juries are selected, they are drawn from a pool, then that pool is whittled down to select 12 jurors. The attorneys are allowed infinite objections against a potential juror based on bias according to http://criminal.findlaw.com/criminal-procedure/how-are-potential-jurors-selected.html. This compounds the fact that the judge, who would already have heard anti-Colson rhetoric would have already been against him. How can you have a right to a fair trial as stated in the 6th amendment if everyone is biased against the defendant? According to https://www.law.cornell.edu/constitution/sixth_amendment, "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury". This begs the question, how is this trial fair?

Secondly, Colson was harmless. He was not a murderer and was not going to run away. According to http://blogs.findlaw.com/blotter/2015/01/5-reasons-criminal-trials-are-often-delayed.html, there are two good reasons to delay the trial, change of venue and more time needed to prepare. Firstly change of venue, change of venue is when the defense asks for a different location, because it would be impossible to find an unbiased jury. The other reason is more time needed to prepare. More time needed to prepare is when the defense feels like it has had inadequate amounts of time to prepare for the trial. This would be true in this case because the defense spent most of their time trying to prove that the jury would have been biased. There was no tangible harm to other people by waiting for a fair trial to occur. Even if you thought he was going to run away, then just put him under house arrest. Even that is unnecessary as he was virtually under house arrest anyways. 

And finally, it was an important case. There were multiple riots like the Hard Hat Riot that happened before Watergate became mainstream, and justice needed to be served. But just because there is a general lack of justice, does not mean that we should rush it out onto specific cases available. Otherwise there would be no point to justice in the first place. If we cannot be sure as to the fact that the people we are throwing in jail are actually criminals, then we need to reevaluate who we are throwing in jail. We cannot offer the defendants' rights as a sacrificial lamb to satisfy the people's hunger for justice.

Some people would argue that while we all think people should have a right to a fair trial, delaying the trial would have done nothing to help; time will not necessarily make the courts magically unbiased. But, this is incorrect because time will settle people's emotions. They also argue that this trial being delayed would have created riots. Delaying the trial would have looked corrupt, and subsequently caused riots. This is invalid because riots would have been caused no matter what, and riots are worth a fair trial. 

In conclusion, The trial for Watergate should have been postponed until public resentment died down for the following three reasons:. There was bias, he was harmless, and It was consequential to Nixon. This case was incredibly important to all Americans because it was about the biggest political scandal in American history, only rivaled by decisions like "should we leave the English monarchy". In 1974, Colson would go on to serve seven months in a federal prison in Alabama. We all need to remember that no matter how angry we are at a person, they always deserve a right to a fair trial. 
