# Booker T. Washington and Frederick Douglass: Their Contributions in Combating the Institution of Slavery

## Introduction

Frederick Douglass and Booker T Washington were both instrumental in ending the reign of slavery and its implications in the south, but who really were these people, and how did they serve the anti-slavery movement?  While Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington were born in vastly different times, they both were slaves at one point, then either ran away or were freed. During Frederick Douglass time, there was a lot of pro-slavery rhetoric created by southerners to make northerners less angry about slavery. Some of these were ideas like "Black people just get drunk if they don't have a slave master telling them what to do" and "Black people are not smart". During Booker T. Washington's time, there was a desperate need to help former slaves into successful lives, while it would be Frederick Douglass' life mission to debunk all of the absurd pro slavery rhetoric being thrown around. While both Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington have a lot in common, they do share some key differences as well. Some of these key differences and similarities are: both men have similar backgrounds; Booker T. Washington focused on lifting former slaves out of poverty; and how being born decades apart changed their abolitionist duties .

## Proof

Both Frederick Douglass and Booker T. Washington have similar enslaved backgrounds. *Frederick Douglass, who escaped in Maryland, also was a vocal and passionate abolitionist*. In his book, _The Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass_ he details how he escaped from slavery on September 18 to a new, more educated life. This might have changed Frederick Douglass's perspective of slavery, because he was still the "property" of his former slaveholder for many of his active years. This contrasts with Booker when he was *mercifully* freed from slavery at age 9 Under the Emancipation Proclamation in 1865. *When Booker T. Washington was freed from slavery, he lived with his parents in West Virginia. But after painstakingly recieving a formal education, he went out in the world to help other freed slaves gain economic freedom after slavery's legal demise.* 

Frederick Douglass was fervently committed to abolishing slavery. He accomplished these means by touring the country, willing to stop anywhere to spread the news about how atrocious slavery was. One of the myths Frederick Douglass annihilated was the idea that slaves could never attain education or literacy. He smashed this supposition by teaching himself how to read and write, as well as compose and deliver eloquent speeches that shocked people by their sapience. In contrast, Booker T. Washington's mission was helping slaves achieve economically sustainable and dignified lives. After graduation from the Hampton Institute, he taught at his alma mater kicking of his career helping former slaves attain economic freedom. Deciding to move on to bigger things, Booker T. Washington founded his own school on July 4, 1881 in Tuskegee, Alabama. What a way to celebrate Independence day! *While here, Booker T. Washington, who's mission was to help his students into well paying sustainable jobs also raised funding through farming which was aided by his students.* This labour would also serve to teach the students practical trades, a crucial skill in that era. Before the newly emancipated slaves attended Tuskegee, most had few marketable skills, could not support themselves, nor could they pay tuition. Just because they had engaged in menial and repetitive tasks on farms, this does not mean they had any qualifications to run one themselves. Another of the other things he did to help former slaves was to tour the country giving speeches to both black and white communities in order to repair race relations and ease tensions between bitter white southerners, and newly freed slaves. Booker T. Washington helped former slaves by not only educating them, providing them food and shelter at Tuskegee, but also spreading peace in the fractured society they would soon enter.  While Frederick Douglass aided aided in the illegalization of slavery, Booker T. Washington committed his life to the abolition of post-slavery poverty.

Both men were born in vastly different times; Frederick Douglass was born 38 years before Booker T. Washington. In 1818, Frederick Douglass was concieved by a slave, Harriet Bailey, and an unknown white man rumored to be the master. His date of birth and position in history would have massive implications on his purpose in history. He was front and center during the height of the abolitionist movement. Around this time, lots of false information about the nature of slaves was deceminated by slave owners, and it would be Frederick Douglass's mission to debunk much of it. We cannot say the same for Booker T. Washington, who was way younger than Frederick Douglass, being born in 1856. This, coupled with the fact that slaves were just emancipated, would cement the fact that Booker T. Washington would need to help slaves just like him find a better life. We see that because of Booker T. Washington's time period, there were differing needs of the abolitionist movement. In conclusion, even though the men were born decades apart, they both lived their lives to help the enslaved U.S. population. One to free from slavery; one to free from poverty.

## Conclusion

While Frederick Douglass combatting the evils of slaver, Booker T. Washington helped slaves economically by providing them an escape from the cycle of poverty. Even though both men have similar backgrounds as freed slaves, they both provided different services to the abolitionist world. While neither man was more instrumental in seeing to the end of slavery, they served wildly different purposes to achieve that end. And it is important to all of us to understand their contributions to society of the time and the society of today.
