# Introduction
"I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately" -Henry David Thoreau. While you may think that this quote is about nature, it is really about you, and about how you should live a fulfilling life; filled with yourself, and nothing else. The books in question today are Ralph Waldo Emerson's "Self-Reliance" and Henry David Thoreau's "Walden", named after the pond where he spent two years of his life in solitude.These books happen in the backdrop of the industrial revolution. These people called "trancendentalists" worried that we were becoming mechanized puppets of the new and burgeoning industrial system. They thought to live a satisfying life, you needed to live a "natural existence".These people published books, met in groups, and decided to share ideas and collaborate. Ralph Waldo Emerson trained Thoreau on trancendentalist thought, and eventually Thoreau lived out in the wilderness for two years because of the thoughts Emerson shared with Thoreau.While many adore the quotes of Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau and can be seen plastered on coffee mugs and inspirational posters, others, such as myself think that they are self-obsessed, indulgent, sloppy, and perfectly describe the ugly parts of American culture we ignore on a day to day basis. trancendentalism describes the consumerist market forces that drive the economy this day, and every day for these three reasons: First, the rampant anti-educationalism shown throughout the book, second, the narcissistic tendencies barely visible behind the nature-loving curtains of the book, and finally, neolibralism; which neatly ties together all of the above elements of the book.
Anti-Educationalism
*These men treat education like a harm to society, as if wallowing in your own ignorance is a virtue.* This can be clearly seen in the following quotes by Ralph Waldo Emerson: "Believe what is true in your heart is true for all men, now that, is genius", "Man is his own start, and the soul can render an honest and perfect man", and finally: "envy is ignorance, imitation is suicide". As well as one from Henry David Thoreau (who thought Europeans were "barbarous and unhealthy" in a time when Americans went to Europe to get cultured): "the old have no valuable experience to give to the young". These men wanted us to live in a more natural state, and in doing this, they created an anti-knowledge mentality right from the beginning of the book. This negatively impacts American culture because it makes us mentally undisciplined. Allowing us to “go with our gut” and fall for things like fake news which even though irrational, appeals to us viscerally.
# Narcissism 
According to The New Yorker, on the night of October 6, 1849, immigrants fled to America from Ireland to escape the famine. Their ship crashed into some rocks, and around 15 people were killed. Henry David Thoreau had this to say about the scene of multiple bloated bodies that had drowned. "On the whole, It was not so impressive a scene as I might have expected. If I had found one body cast upon the beach in some lonely place, it would have affected me more". This is what you can expect from a man that is anti-family, anti-relationship, and was put in jail for tax evasion; then had to be bailed out by his mother, ironically. *It is safe to say Thoreau has heart of stone.* But what about Ralph Waldo Emerson? Same problem. This can be seen in his response to giving "They are not my poor people". And a man that thinks that relief societies and almost all charities are bad. So we have a man that will not feel sorry for the victims of a shipwreck that had drowned to death because their death was not artistic enough for him; and we have a man that will not give to the poor because they are “Not his”. These men imply that we were given a route of communication that instead of building relationships, we tell others to ‘go away’. We can see this is ridiculous because even Henry David Thoreau could not sustain this lifestyle, only being in the woods for two years, never to return. We as Americans are hyper individualistic, putting our happiness well above the needs of others.
# Neoliberalism
You might be wondering, "What is neoliberalism? No fear, I will tell you; neoliberalism is an economic philosophy that has the following tenants: consumerism is the most important obligation of a citizen, personal freedoms trump public freedoms, and all social issues are addressed on a private level (Henry Giroux, “Youth in a Suspect Society”) An example of this would be the “Real Standards of Beauty” commercial campaign by Dove. While Emerson and Thoreau seemingly eschewed materialism, they were extreme proponents of narcissism. Because their foundation of life was based on self, and by making the foundation of life self, they make themselves the material and succumb to materialism. Materialism is easily co-opted into neoliberalism (much to their dismay). You can go online right now and spend your heart away on trancendentalist, “anti-materialist” mugs, posters, and general apparel. The irony of which is lost on the 21st century consumer. As Americans we mislead ourselves into thinking we can buy a lifestyle we do not live.
# Refutation
While some believe that works on trancendentalism are nature loving, self-help books, but I believe that trancendentalism is made to fuel narcissism, and one way is through "appreciating" nature. They believe that works on trancendentalism are nature loving books because of countless nature quotes such as "We need the tonic of wildness" and, "We can never have enough of nature". But this is not what trancendentalism is about; this is made obvious by the mass of pages in each book on self-improvement and not about nature. It is about selling you on your cerebral self-sufficiency, whether it be validating your self-righteousness through anti-educationalism or just plain self-centeredness. The other reason people believe that trancendentalist material is helpful to American culture is because they appear to be self-help books. Many people believe the above statements because they reflect our culture and values, and, if we take bits and pieces of their advice to heart, then we feel better and our place in the world. Although I would argue that by condemning the rest of society, we only elevate ourselves, making ourselves the center of our own selectively crafted universe.
# Conclusion
It has been shown that trancendentalist material is not self-help or nature appreciation, but is in fact self-centered material that is purposed to boost the ego of the reader. Because it is anti-education, narcissistic, and neoliberal, it betrays the very values it purports to espouse. Brothers in Christ, I warn you about this because of the virtues of humility the bible provides in:
Romans 16:17-19 “I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them. For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive. For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you, But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people”.

*Emerson and Thoreau deceive us into wrongly perceiving the abundance of materialism received by the 21st century*
