# Introduction

The classic book _The Scarlet Letter_ is assigned as required reading throughout America's high schools, but as any high schooler would tell you, the book is an unpleasant chore; so why is it still read in American high schools if nobody feels they are getting anything out of it?  _The Scarlet Letter_ was a morally provocative book when it was published in 1850 and challenged the black and white morality of the time.  *While it will be shown today that the Scarlet Letter did not properly tell a story, others will still love the book through the cloudy plot because of the morals.* My review of _The Scarlet Letter_ consists of three parts: first, the morals, second, the atrocious characters, and third, the dead sloth of a plot. Even though the morals of the book were amazing, the plot and characters left something to be desired.
 
# Parts

Firstly, the morals. The morals of this book were amazing, and if you abstract the well-put points of the book, and apply them to modern issues you can see similar problems with modern Christianity. One of the many problems with the modern church is that we make some sins better or worse than others as we saw in _The Scarlet Letter_. This mentality allows us to put ourselves in the place of God by constantly drawing the "line" of grave sin behind us. It says in the Bible _"for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God"_-Romans 3:23. While at a Hillary Clinton rally, we saw a group of "Christians" shouting that all pro-choice people go to Hell. Not only do they have deep misunderstandings about marketing their issue, but they also did nothing but divide people with their poorly thought-out morality. The same can be said for gay marriage with many thinking, "Well as long as you are not gay or a murdurer, you go to Heaven."

Secondly, the poorly-sketched characters. Hester Prine makes absolutely no sense whatsoever. Her motives are cloudy at best, and downright nonsensical at worst. The relationship between Dimsdale and Hester is unexplained, and their attraction completely forced. The book can best be described as "night fog"; The atmosphere is gloomy, and the characters are opaque.  Their connection is never explained and baffles me. Hester and Dimsdale have no reason to do any of the things they do together. One example of their post-scarlet-letter antics is meeting in the woods with Pearl, their loud child who often runs off. Why they do this nobody knows. Nothing makes sense, the characters are all irrational and have no clear motives or desire to do any of the things they do. The only possible reason for Hester's affair was that her spouse, Rodger Chillingsworth, was either angry or absent. Neither of which is fleshed out.

Third, the offensively slow plot. The plot was laid out poorly in that this book has blurred and confusing scenes, no transitions, and no beginning or ending. It makes the book feel long and tedious. The book is highly moralized with extreme caricatures of people. Most fairy tales are not heavily character-driven, and the characters appear dull and unfascinating, but this is fine because most fairy tales are short and sweet. You can only keep a reader for about 20-40 pages with such a shallow plot until they want to put down the book. The plot of this book is character-driven, and the characters are bland and not well thought out. The only facet of these characters that is well fleshed out is the pain they feel. In a character driven plot, the number one priority must be the characters and not the morals. A book should tell a story, have a point, and be compelling. _The Scarlet Letter_ only hits upon the second necessity.

# Conclusion

In conclusion, this book was written with the best of intentions, but ended up feeling like a boring and dreary chore. *Hopefully one day this book will be objectively judged instead of set aside unejuticated for the masses* The morality and message of this book has certainly outlived its flaws, but does not excuse the lackluster plot and characters. And finally, to the high school teachers that keep assigning this book, it makes sense why you keep assigning the book, but it is flatly impossible to grasp all of its intricacies. If the book had a semi-modern translation, the book would be more digestible. The students will never see the art of the book if it is shrouded behind the fog of antiquated literary word choice. 
